README.md, before:

# NBP-API-modifier
Simple service written with Spring Boot, which return modified NBP API requests about currency rates and gold prices.

This application uses *[NBP Web API](https://api.nbp.pl/)* for fetching data about average currency rates and gold prices.

## Exposed endpoints:

> **Note:** Tomcat Server starts on port 8080 with no context path

### GET /api/exchange-rates/{currencyCode} 

> #### Returns JSON object with currency exchange rate PLN to {currencyCode} for the last 5 business days.
> Response parameters
> - **name -** name of the currency (names are in polish).
> - **code -** three letter currency code (*[ISO 4217 Standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217)*), e.g. USD.
> - **avgRate -** average exchange rate for the last 5 business days.
> - **rates -** array of exchange rates with publication days for last 5 businnes days.
> - **date -** publication date of exchange rate in the YYYY-MM-DD format.
> - **plnRate -** average exchange rate of PLN to {currencyCode}.
> 
> Query parameters
> - **currencyCode -** three letter currency code, e.g. USD.
> 
> Query example
>> GET **http://localhost:8080/api/exchange-rates/usd**
>> 
>> Response: {"name":"dolar amerykański","code":"USD","avgRate":0.2338,"rates":[{"date":"2022-04-11","plnRate":0.2348}, ...]}
>
> **Note:** some currencies are updated only once, so in their cases there is only one object in rates array

### GET /api/gold-price/average
> #### Returns JSON object average gold price for the last 14 business days
> Response parameters
> - **avgPrice -** average gold price for last 14 business days
> - **goldPrices -** array of gold prices with publication dates for last 14 business days
> - **date -** gold price publication date
> - **price -** gold price 
> Query example
>> GET **http://localhost:8080/api/gold-price/average**
>>
>> Response: {"avgPrice":265.08,"goldPrices":[{"date":"2022-03-29","price":266.46}, ...]}

## Error response:

> Response parameters
> - **timestamp -** string value which consists date (YYYY-DD-MM), current time (HH-MM-SS.mmm) and time zone (GG:GG)
> - **status -** status response value
> - **name -** name of the error type
> - **path -** path of the request
>
> Response example: {"timestamp":"2022-04-17T23:16:49.521+00:00","status":500,"error":"Internal Server Error","path":"/api/exchange-rates/bfg"}

Commit message:

Updating README file and server .jar file

README.md, after:

# NBP-API-modifier
Simple service written with Spring Boot, which return modified NBP API requests about currency rates and gold prices.

This application uses *[NBP Web API](https://api.nbp.pl/)* for fetching data about average currency rates and gold prices.

## Launching server

To run server with from .jar file you need to go to target directory and run:
> ``java -jar nbp-api-modifier-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar``
>
> **Note:** you need to have JRE 11 or higher version to run it
## Exposed endpoints:

> **Note:** Tomcat Server starts on port 8080 with context path ''

### GET /api/exchange-rates/{currencyCode} 

> #### Returns JSON object with currency exchange rate PLN to {currencyCode} for the last 5 business days.
> Response parameters
> - **name -** name of the currency (names are in polish).
> - **code -** three letter currency code (*[ISO 4217 Standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217)*), e.g. USD.
> - **avgRate -** average exchange rate for the last 5 business days.
> - **rates -** array of exchange rates with publication days for last 5 businnes days.
> - **date -** publication date of exchange rate in the YYYY-MM-DD format.
> - **plnRate -** average exchange rate of PLN to {currencyCode}.
> 
> Query parameters
> - **currencyCode -** three letter currency code, e.g. USD.
> 
> Query example
>> GET **http://localhost:8080/api/exchange-rates/usd**
>> 
>> Response: ```{"name":"dolar amerykański","code":"USD","avgRate":0.2338,"rates":[{"date":"2022-04-11","plnRate":0.2348}, ...]}```
>
> **Note:** some currencies are updated only once, so in their cases there is only one object in rates array

### GET /api/gold-price/average
> #### Returns JSON object average gold price for the last 14 business days
> Response parameters
> - **avgPrice -** average gold price for last 14 business days
> - **goldPrices -** array of gold prices with publication dates for last 14 business days
> - **date -** gold price publication date
> - **price -** gold price 
> Query example
>> GET **http://localhost:8080/api/gold-price/average**
>>
>> Response: ```{"avgPrice":265.08,"goldPrices":[{"date":"2022-03-29","price":266.46}, ...]}```

## Error response:

> Response parameters
> - **timestamp -** string value which consists date (YYYY-DD-MM), current time (HH-MM-SS.mmm) and time zone (GG:GG)
> - **status -** status response value
> - **name -** name of the error type
> - **path -** path of the request
>
> Response example: {"timestamp":"2022-04-17T23:16:49.521+00:00","status":500,"error":"Internal Server Error","path":"/api/exchange-rates/bfg"}
